recent studies have found that a lower
proportion of people
who are from black asian minority ethnic
communities have taken up the offer of a
coronavirus vaccine
and to try to address those concerns and
dispel some of the myths around about
the jab
for the first time in british media
history all the major commercial tv
channels will simultaneously broadcast a
video message
featuring a number of celebrities takes
place this evening
let's have a look the vaccine does not
contain the virus itself
only harmless elements from it taking
the vaccine is the only way to boost
your immunity against covid for you and
your loved ones
the vaccine was available quickly
because of a global effort
because huge funds were made available
by governments around the world
so something that would normally take
years took just months
it's very very rare for vaccines to have
a long-term side effect
but what we do know is that kovid 19's
long-term
implications are deadly the coveted
covid19 vaccines have gone through
the same strict processes and
regulations
as other vaccines such as for measles
mumps rubella
and tb there is no chip or tracker in
the vaccine to keep watching where you
go
your mobile phone actually does a much
better job of that pregnant women
are not excluded from the vaccine but
should discuss their case with the
doctor
there's also no evidence to suggest the
vaccine
affects fertility
we can talk now to rameshwaran and
nathan who we saw just in that clip
morning
and we saw um doctor and we're going to
talk to dr fazana hussein who's a gp in
east london good morning to you too
um ramesh um lovely to have you with us
on the programme
tell us um why is this so important to
you because i know your
mum i do watch the rank of nathan i know
your mum um
had some hesitancy when it came to the
vaccination because of just stuff she
was hearing
yeah well my mom's a key worker and
where she works it's a lot of people
from south asian backgrounds and so
i um my brother and i were obviously
very worried about her and then we just
assumed that she was going to be
willing and ready to take the vaccine
and then when it came down to
us actually discussing it with her she
said i've actually got some doubts and
so
it took us by surprise but we we sort of
were able to talk to her about it and
explain the various issues and now she
feels
okay to take it but it just feels so
heartbreaking to me that
people from ethnic minorities are sort
of inflicting a degree of separation
upon themselves from from not trusting
in this and
i understand all the reasons why i've
heard all the arguments but i just feel
so strongly that we need to make sure we
dispel
some of these myths so that people are
getting involved
and we can get ourselves out of this
pandemic well let's talk about
dispelling some of these myths because i
can only imagine
my frustration i i would have trying to
explain this
clearly to someone who's listened to
a lot of it's a nonsense or rumors that
are flying around dr fazana hussain
how is how is it best i mean you can
explain it that's your job but how is it
best for say family members to explain
to reluctant older family members or
those who just say you know what i'm not
buying into it
well thank you so much for having me
it's great to see ramesh i
loved his show with his mom i feel like
i know her
don't we you all know that um
and like ramesh i feel really strongly
about this because we do know that
sadly um kobe defects our ethnic
minorities so much more you're
far at risk of dying so um i think he
is about everybody giving the message
and there's nothing more powerful
than your own family and friends giving
that message
um so locally where i work in newarm yes
of course i'm giving the message but
we've trained some um our public health
our council have trained
up to 87 uh community cambridge
champions they're
members of our community who can answer
a lot of
the sort of top 10 questions and they're
spreading this message to
family and friends so i think that's
really important
i think having this campaign with our
wonderful celebrities all
coming out i think that's really
important i think we need to give
uh messages at all at levels from all of
us
ramesh as a comedian celebrity uh
you know your whole brand is being a
funny guy on tv did you have any
hesitancy yourself about
about appearing in something like this
which is inevitably quite
serious it it's it's difficult and might
get you some push back on social media
that kind of thing
well i mean as a comedian push back on
social media sort of part of the job
description really but um
you know i'll be honest with you not
hesitancy i had but
the only thing i thought was i tend to
be quite you know
cynical about celebrities and and people
sort of
uh getting involved in things like this
because you'll think well you don't know
any more than i do and i understand that
but the truth is
i'm so worried and so concerned that
that people from minority backgrounds
are not doing this
i just thought what can i do you know
and and so i hope this does make a
difference and so
that was kind of the only reason i
thought well is this the right thing to
do but then i thought well
i'm either going to do this or do
nothing and i think it's a really
important message to get out there
anything i can do to to help do that i'm
going to be up for
fazana we spoke to you on breakfast on
saturday morning and you were telling us
about how you were literally picking up
the phone
and calling some of your patients who
didn't want to come in and get the
vaccine and you were saying that there
were still a lot of people refusing
has it improved over the last few days
have you noticed a shift
is the kind of message that ramesh is
getting out there getting across
not hugely sadly i know it's still early
days and i think that's why
it's so important to keep repeating the
message
and now i love what romance just said i
mean i i got an 18 year old son
and he would never take a message from
me or a doctor
but when i told him that i was going to
be on tv with romance
he was so excited about it and i think
that's the thing i think
um we obviously have a place as doctors
but i think everybody has a place
and i think this message is going to be
a long hard one as
dr nikki kanani our gp leader has said
um you know recently we're fighting
two pandemics here we're fighting the
covid virus
but we're also fighting this huge
tsunami of misinformation that's coming
out
i love the way it takes 18 years in
romish rank and nathan for a doctor a gp
an established woman to get any street
cred in her own house
listen the conversation i mean you
obviously have a good relationship with
your brother and your mother so you were
able to sit down and have
a decent you know understanding
conversation what tips would you have i
mean i i did ask dr um hussain this as
well
but you know they're it's so easy i mean
i know from when i've spoken to my
parents about various things to become
frustrated and
and to almost try to bully people into
doing into doing this and that's just
not going to work what tips would you
have
if there are families watching now from
any um background you think
i need to have this conversation i just
don't know how to go about it and they
won't see a gp
well look the the truth is what you said
is absolutely right is that the
because you're so concerned and my
brother and i had the same thing we were
so worried about our mum that your
your instinct is to go well this is
ridiculous that you're feeling like this
but i think actually
from my point of view and how we tackled
it is we
we sat down with my mum uh over zoom
once we got her to get it to work
talk to her through what her concerns
were we said you know what are your head
you know what
what are the reasons you're hesitating
and we looked at it together
um and uh together sort of helped dispel
those for her and so
it was very much we were coming at it
from a very a supportive way
and i you know i do understand where my
mom's coming from i don't think it's
ridiculous she has these concerns but at
the same time they aren't correct and so
it was just a matter of sitting down
taking the time with her to talk about
it and not just go
this is ridiculous that you're feeling
like this i understand that you're
feeling like this
let's look at it together and so i felt
like when she was ready to take the
vaccine
she felt much more secure with her
decision you know okay well both thanks
so much for for talking to us on
breakfast this morning ramesh
uh we look forward to to seeing that
film tonight and fazana you can now go
and tell your son that you've just been
doing a quick
uh call with romish and have instant
cred
yes there you go
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news